W-22107396-schema-validation (#1048)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.13/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-graphql-schema-validation.adoc

= GraphQL Schema Validation Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: graphql, schema validation, api gateway, flex gateway, gateway, policy

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | GraphQL Schema Validation
>s| Summary | Validates incoming GraphQL operations against a GraphQL schema definition
>s| Category | Security
>s| First Flex Gateway version available | v1.13.0
.1+>.^s| Returned status codes
| 400 - The operation doesn't satisfy the schema. When *Block request* is enabled, the JSON response includes GraphQL-style `errors` with a validation message.
|===

== Summary

The GraphQL Schema Validation policy applies standard GraphQL validation rules, including field and argument correctness, fragments, directives, unions, interfaces, and other specification rules.

> The policy loads schema in these ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy loads the schema in these ways:
```

* If `source` is `context`, Flex Gateway pulls schema from your API asset in Exchange.
* If `source` is `inline`, you embed your schema directly in the policy configuration.

> If the document includes a `@link` to the Apollo Federation specification URL, Flex Gateway uses this schema to validate all incoming requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the document includes an `@link` to the Apollo Federation specification URL, Flex Gateway uses this schema to validate all incoming requests.
```

> After Flex Gateway extracts inline GraphQL operation text from the request, the policy runs validation. If Flex Gateway can't resolve normal operation text, such as persisted query flows, it skips these checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After Flex Gateway extracts inline GraphQL operation text from the request, the policy runs validation. If Flex Gateway can't resolve normal operation text, such as persisted query flows, it skips these checks and logs a warning before it forwards the request to the upstream.
```

Reviewer: Is this true even if block requests = true?

> Although Flex Gateway loads the schema into memory, it logs a warning and forwards the request instead of validating it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== Configuring Policy Parameters

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=configFile]

----
- policyRef:
    name: graphql-schema-validation-flex
  config:
    source: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: context; values: "context" or "inline"
    schema: <string> // REQUIRED when source is inline; omit when source is context
    blockOperation: <boolean> // OPTIONAL, default: true
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===

| Parameter | Required | Default Value | Description

| `source`
| No
| `context`

> | Where Flex Gateway retrieves the schema for validation. If set to `context`, Flex Gateway automatically loads the schema file from the API asset in Anypoint Exchange. If set to `inline` you provide the schema text directly in the policy configuration. This is the standard choice for local mode or environments that aren't connected to Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Where Flex Gateway retrieves the schema for validation. If set to `context`, Flex Gateway automatically loads the schema file from the API asset in Anypoint Exchange. If set to `inline`, provide the schema text directly in the policy configuration. This is required for local mode or environments not connected to Exchange.
```

| `schema`

> | Yes, when `source` is `inline`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| No
```

> | Omit for `context`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| NA
```

| The schema text used for validation. Required when `source` is set to `inline`.

| `blockOperation`
| No
| `true`

> | How Flex Gateway handles requests that fail validation. If `true`, Flex Gateway blocks the request and returns a 400 Bad Request. If `false`, Flex Gateway logs a warning and forwards the request to your backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| How Flex Gateway handles requests that fail validation. If `true`, Flex Gateway blocks the request and returns a `400` Bad Request. If `false`, Flex Gateway logs a warning and forwards the request to your backend.
```

|===

==== Resource Configuration Example

This example validates against a minimal inline schema:

[source,yaml]
----
- policyRef:
    name: graphql-schema-validation-flex
  config:
    source: inline
    blockOperation: true
    schema: |
      type Query {
        hello: String
      }
----

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=ui]

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
s|Field s|Description s|Default Value s|Required 

| Block request 

> | If enabled and the operation doesn't conform to the schema, Flex Gateway returns a 400 error. If disabled, Flex Gateway logs a warning and forwards the request. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| If enabled and the operation doesn't conform to the schema, Flex Gateway returns a `400` error. If disabled, Flex Gateway logs a warning and forwards the request. 
```

| Enabled 
| Yes
|===

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: Remove this note

= GraphQL Schema Validation Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: graphql, schema validation, api gateway, flex gateway, gateway, policy

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | GraphQL Schema Validation
>s| Summary | Validates incoming GraphQL operations against a GraphQL schema definition before Flex Gateway forwards traffic upstream
>s| Category | Security
>s| First Flex Gateway version available | v1.13.0
.1+>.^s| Returned status codes
| 400 - The operation doesn't satisfy the schema. When you enable *Block request*, the JSON response includes GraphQL-style `errors` with a validation message.
|===

== Summary

> Unlike xref:policies-included-schema-validation.adoc[], which targets REST APIs and OpenAPI documents, this policy validates GraphQL operations against a GraphQL schema. It applies standard GraphQL validation rules, including field and argument correctness, fragments, directives, unions, interfaces, and other specification rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GraphQL Schema Validation policy applies standard GraphQL validation rules, including field and argument correctness, fragments, directives, unions, interfaces, and other specification rules.
```

The policy loads schema in these ways:

> * Flex Gateway pulls SDL from your API asset in Exchange when `source` is `context`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Flex Gateway pulls schema from your API asset in Exchange when `source` is `context`.
```

> * You embed SDL directly in declarative configuration when `source` is `inline`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You embed your schema directly in the policy configuration when `source` is `inline`.
```

If the document declares an `extend schema` `@link` to Apollo's federation specification URL, Flex Gateway parses the Apollo Federation subgraph SDL and validates the request text against the resulting schema.

After Flex Gateway extracts inline GraphQL operation text from the request, the policy runs validation. If Flex Gateway can't resolve normal operation text, such as persisted query flows, it skips these checks.

Although Flex Gateway loads the schema into memory, it logs a warning and forwards the request instead of validating it.

If you turn off *Block request* and validation fails, Flex Gateway writes a warning to the logs and forwards the request upstream. If you turn on *Block request*, Flex Gateway returns a 400 Bad Request message with `Content-Type: application/json` and a JSON body such as `{"errors":[{"message":"<validator text>"}]}`.

> Use this policy on Flex Gateway API instances that expose a GraphQL interface. Apply it at the API or resource scope as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| `schema`
| Required when `source` is `inline`
| Omit for `context`
| The full GraphQL schema as SDL text. If you set `source` to `inline`, you must provide this field to start the policy.

| `blockOperation`
| Optional
| `true`
| If `true` and validation fails, Flex Gateway returns a 400 error. If `false`, Flex Gateway logs a warning and forwards the request.

|===

==== Resource Configuration Example

This example validates against a minimal inline schema.

[source,yaml]
----
- policyRef:
    name: graphql-schema-validation-flex
  config:
    source: inline
    blockOperation: true
    schema: |
      type Query {
        hello: String
      }
----

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=ui]

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
s|Field s|Description s|Default s|Required

| Block request
| If enabled and the operation doesn't conform to the schema, Flex Gateway returns a 400 error. If disabled, Flex Gateway logs a warning and forwards the request.
| Enabled | Yes

> | Advanced options

Reviewer: Remove advanced options

| Standard policy options such as policy version and application rules.
| |
|===

[NOTE]
====

> To start the policy, supply a populated configuration payload. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
